doc: Bluetooth qualification (#9705)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/bt/bt_qualification/index.rst

.. _ug_bt_qualification:

Bluetooth qualification
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Every product using the *Bluetooth®* LE technology must be certified (qualified) by Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG).
Only when your product is qualified, you will be authorized to do the following:

* Prove that your products satisfy the requirements of the Bluetooth license agreements and specifications.
* Use Bluetooth trademark and logos.
* Sell products that use Bluetooth LE technology.

As a result, your products will be listed and can be promoted on the official Bluetooth SIG page.

Pre-qualified design
********************

.. note::
   A *design* is a specific configuration of hardware and/or software implementation of adopted Bluetooth specifications, either in parts or as a whole.

> By using pre-qualified designs, you can omit the testing phase during your product's qualification.

Reviewer: I think some of your comments (such as this one) won't be an issue to a reader who is doing Bluetooth products. I don't think objective of this page is to re-explain everything written in PRD document.

> By using pre-qualified designs, you can omit the testing phase during your product's qualification.

Reviewer 2: I hope they won't be :)

|NCS| contains qualified portions of various Bluetooth features (:ref:`ug_ble_controller_softdevice` versions).

Any qualified design offered by Nordic Semiconductor (for example, :ref:`ug_bt_mesh` versions) can be qualified independently by the customers.
However, this process may be complex and time-consuming, thus it is recommended to inherit Nordic Semiconductor's design qualifications in your End Product's listing.

> If you want to create a Profile Subsystem that is not on the `Bluetooth Qualification Listing`_ yet, run the relevant tests through the `Profile Tuning Suite (PTS)`_ tool and qualify the product.

Author: Nope, users can qualify all types of Nordic products. 
If I understood Miles correctly, the difference between Subsystems and other BT Product types is that it is not a top priority for Nordic to qualify all existing Subsystems. Hence, if users want to use it in their products, they don't have to wait for us or raise a request, they can do it by themselves.

A full list of Bluetooth product types including their descriptions is available on the `Bluetooth product types`_ page.

Qualification process
*********************

The Bluetooth End Product qualification cannot be inherited.
Hence, you must complete this process by yourself.
You can either perform a full qualification process for a new product or edit an existing entry for a product that has already been qualified.

The only way to qualify your product is to complete the `Bluetooth SIG's Qualification Process`_ under your member company's account.
To check if your company is already a SIG member, go to `Join Bluetooth SIG`_ page and search the Member Directory list.

Before you start the qualification process, review `PRD and DPD`_ documents, that will help you to understand the basics.

Creating new entry
==================

Log into `Launch Studio`_, the official qualification tool, that will guide you through one of the following processes depending on the state of your product:

> * `Qualification process with no required testing`_ - If your complete product uses only pre-qualified End Products or Subsystems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Qualification process with no required testing`_ - If your complete product uses only pre-qualified End Products or Subsystems and implements APIs as instructed in the documentation.
```

> * `Qualification process with no required testing`_ - If your complete product uses only pre-qualified End Products or Subsystems and implements APIs as instructed in the corresponding |NCS| documentation.

Reviewer: I think it is safe to remove "End Products" from here.

> * `Qualification process with no required testing`_ - If your complete product uses only pre-qualified End Products or Subsystems and implements APIs as instructed in the corresponding |NCS| documentation.

Reviewer: I think from all practical perspective. It is better to remove "End Products" from line 53.

> * `Qualification process with no required testing`_ - If your complete product uses only pre-qualified End Products or Subsystems and implements APIs as instructed in the corresponding |NCS| documentation.

Reviewer 2: I am biased by working on other protocols and see "end product" as the finite product that the user picks up from the shelf, so seeing it here confuses me. I second Omkar's suggestion.

* `Qualification process with required testing`_ - In the following cases:

  * If your product uses a new Bluetooth design that is not yet qualified by Nordic Semiconductor.
  * If your product uses a pre-qualified Component.
  * If your product alters a previously qualified Bluetooth design by changing the code or configuring it in a way that can break the qualification requirements for the Nordic Semiconductor's qualified design.

Updating existing entry
=======================

.. note::

   An existing entry can be edited only by the person that completed the listing.
   If you want to change the entry owner, contact SIG support.

Update an existing qualification entry through `Launch Studio`_ in the following cases:

> * You changed an existing product's design.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this. In "Pre-qualified design" the gist is that designs must be qualified. In line 56, you repeat this information. Yet here I get an option to change the design just by editing the entry. So does this apply only to qualified designs? Or this is related to what you later explain in lines 76-82, in which case we need a mention here that some restrictions apply?

Reviewer: Yeah, I had a similar thought here, but choose to leave it out since I understood the content anyway and readers might also understand it and thought this could be updated later if we get queries. Some cleanup here would help but, personally not a deal breaker for me.

Reviewer: You can remove this bullet point or rephrase it a bit. If you do design change, most likely you will have to redo the testing because new features got added. If you do a design change that adds new features, you cannot edit existing entry. 

The only case when you could edit existing entry with the design change, per my understanding, is that you changed the design but overall functionality remained the same (for example: someone re-wrote a transport layer of the stack. It is big design change, but ultimately it still does the same things that it was doing before, may be now with better optimized code).

```suggestion
* You changed an existing product's design (but features used in the product are still the same) and you want to update the listing to indicate new updates or add new product marketing information.
```

Typically when one needs to add new variants of the products (like simple bulb, fancy bulb, intelligent bulb), they should add new product entry rows to the listing by doing "subsetting" of the main listing. Subsetting allows you to disable unsued features from individual product's ICS (https://support.bluetooth.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049019592).

> * Your new end product can be added as a new entry to existing list of product entries as there was no design change in a new product.

Author: Hi Miles! Thank you for your review and raising that particular issue.
In fact I was hoping to differentiate a *product*/*end product* (as a general non-Bluetooth term) from the *End Product* Type - to my understanding, every customer's product can be classified as one of the [Bluetooth Product Type](https://support.bluetooth.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049018712/), am I right?
If so, I would change all *end product* (in lowercase) occurrences to *product* to clearly underline the difference in meaning between non-BT and BT phrase.
@mileslouissmith @omkar3141 Please let me know what you think.

> * Your new end product can be added as a new entry to existing list of product entries as there was no design change in a new product.

Reviewer: I think this (`I would change all end product (in lowercase) occurrences to product to clearly underline the difference in meaning between non-BT and BT phrase`) is a good idea to avoid the confusion.

> * Your new end product can be added as a new entry to existing list of product entries as there was no design change in a new product.

Author: done, please check

> * Your new product can be added as a new entry to existing list of product entries as there was no design change in the new product.

Reviewer 2: This entry does not match the style of other entries ("You did sth" vs "Your product can be added").

* You want to switch to another major |NCS| version for an existing product.
* In some cases, if you want to switch to another minor |NCS| version for an existing product.

It may happen that you would need to alter the configuration of the qualified design or slightly modify small parts of the existing design to better fit your application needs.
If you make such changes, you must check the following:

> * Ensure that the resulting design does not add new features (ICS entries) that are not present in Nordic Semiconductor's qualified design.

Reviewer 2: ICS acronym is not explained.

Reviewer 2: Looks good.

* Ensure that the resulting design does not break the qualification of the existing design.

> You can do so by running relevant qualification tests using test tools.

Reviewer 2: You mean the PTS tool? Why the plural?

Reviewer: This is explained in PRD and should be well known jargon for Bluetooth product makers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can do so by running relevant qualification tests using test tools listed in the PRD.
```

Reviewer: Tools are not listed in the PRD. "Qualification tests using test tools" is a well known concept. Those who are following a PRD would know it by virtue of lot of literature and material around this process.

Switching to another SDK version
--------------------------------

If you want to switch to another |NCS| version for an existing product, complete the following steps:

1. Go to the `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ and search for the SoC or SiP model you use.

#. Navigate to the relevant Compatibility Matrix directory.

#. Open the Bluetooth QDIDs article and, based on the table, confirm the following information:

> 

Author: Ania to fix the indentation (+1 space for lines 95-97).

   * That the version you want to use is compatible with versions of other Subsystems you want to keep for your product.
   * That relevant Host and SoftDevice Controller Subsystems implemented in the |NCS| version you want to use are pre-qualified.

>      If yes, check the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     If both are pre-qualified, check the following:
```

>      * If the version you want to use is fully pre-qualified, and has the same Qualification Design ID (QDID) numbers as the ones currently used for your product, then no further action is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     * If the version you want to use is fully pre-qualified and has the same Qualification Design ID (QDID) numbers as the ones currently used for your product, then no further action is required.
```

     * If the version you want to use has at least one QDID number that is different from the numbers already used for your product, then a new qualification is required.
       Log into the `Launch Studio`_ tool and follow the steps for `Qualification process with no required testing`_ option.

Qualification listing
*********************

> The `Bluetooth Qualification Listing`_ search lists all qualified designs.

Reviewer 2: When is a design listed on this listing? Yes, when it is qualified, but who updates the list? Are there any documents that are needed?

Reviewer: This is correct. Bluetooth qualification listing search list is updated automatically by SIG once qualification is approved by the SIG. So the statement is correct. Another way to say the same thing could be: 
```suggestion
All qualified designs can be found using the `Bluetooth Qualification Listing`_ search page.
```

Use it in the following cases:

* To check if your qualification process succeeded.
* To search for existing designs that can be used in your product.
* To check if you can add your device model to an existing qualification entry.

Matter certification by inheritance
***********************************

Bluetooth QDIDs may be further used to obtain the Matter certification by inheritence.
See the :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification_reqs_dependent` section for details.

Support
*******

> For details about the qualification process, see the `Qualifications and listings`_ page, or ask `Bluetooth Qualification Consultants`_ for advice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For details about the qualification process, see the `Qualifications and listings`_ page or ask `Bluetooth Qualification Consultants`_ for advice.
```

> In case of any questions regarding Nordic Semicondutor's qualified designs and their use in your products, contact `DevZone`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of any questions regarding Nordic Semicondutor's qualified designs and their use in your products, contact Nordic Semiconductor's technical support on `DevZone`_.
```

  * If your product uses a new Bluetooth design that is not yet qualified by Nordic Semiconductor.
  * If your product uses a pre-qualified Component.
  * If your product alters a previously qualified Bluetooth design by changing the code or configuring it in a way that can break the qualification requirements for the Nordic Semiconductor's qualified design.

Updating existing entry
=======================

.. note::
   An existing entry can be edited only by the person that completed the listing.
   If you want to change the entry owner, contact SIG support.

Update an existing qualification entry through the `Launch Studio`_ tool in the following cases:

* You changed an existing product's design with no changes in the product's features, and hence you want to update the listing to indicate new updates or add new marketing information regarding this product.
* You can add a new product as a new entry to an existing list of product entries as there was no design change in the new product.
* You want to switch to another major |NCS| version for an existing product.
* In some cases, if you want to switch to another minor |NCS| version for an existing product.

> It may happen that you would need to alter the configuration of the qualified design or slightly modify small parts of the existing design to better fit your application needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You might need to alter the configuration of the qualified design or slightly modify parts of the existing design to better fit your application needs.
```

If you make such changes, you must check the following:

* Ensure that the resulting design does not change the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) that has already been declared for a relevant Nordic Semiconductor's qualified design.
* Ensure that the resulting design does not break the qualification of the existing design.

> You can do so by running relevant qualification tests using test tools indicated in the 'Launch Studio'_ tool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can complete the checks by running relevant qualification tests using test tools indicated in the 'Launch Studio'_ tool.
```

Switching to another SDK version
--------------------------------

If you want to switch to another |NCS| version for an existing product, complete the following steps:

1. Go to the `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ and search for the SoC or SiP model you use.

#. Navigate to the relevant Compatibility Matrix directory.

> #. Open the Bluetooth QDIDs article and, based on the table, confirm the following information:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Open the Bluetooth QDIDs article and, based on the table, confirm the following:
```

>    * That the version you want to use is compatible with versions of other Subsystems you want to keep for your product.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * The version you want to use must be compatible with versions of other Subsystems you want to keep for your product.
```

>    * That relevant Host and SoftDevice Controller Subsystems implemented in the |NCS| version you want to use are pre-qualified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Relevant Host and SoftDevice Controller Subsystems implemented in the |NCS| version you want to use must be pre-qualified.
```
